o 

Question: Create a new branch from your latest code (or master) and 
"label" that point in time while keeping all code in the same root, 
you should use a Git Tag combined with a New Branch.

Here are the step-by-step instructions:

Step 1: 

Create a "Label" (Git Tag) In Git, the official way to mark 
or label a specific point in your code's history (without moving the 
branch) is by creating a tag.
 
> Via the GitHub Web Interface: (Permament Label insame branch)

1. Go to your repository's main page. Click on the Releases tab 
on the right side of the page. Click Draft a new release (or Create 
a new release).

2. In the Choose a tag dropdown, type a version number (e.g., v1.0.0).
Click Create new tag: [tag_name]. 

3. Write your title and description, 

4. then click Publish release. This locks this exact code state as a 
permanent label. 

> Via the Terminal:

Make sure you are on your latest branch/master:

1. git checkout master. 
2. Create the tag: git tag v1.0.0 
3. Push the tag to GitHub: git push origin v1.0.0

Step 2: 

Create a New Branch To start coding from this exact latest 
point (while staying rooted to master as your base repository), you 
will create a new branch.

> Via the GitHub Web Interface:

1. On your repository page, click the Branch dropdown menu at the top 
left.

2. Type a unique name for your new branch (e.g., new-feature) in the text 
field.

3. Click Create branch.

Via the Terminal:

Ensure you are on the latest code and it's pulled: 

1. git pull origin master.

2. Create and switch to your new branch:
git checkout -b new-featurePush 

the new branch to GitHub:
git push -u origin new-featureHow 


This Achieves Your Goal, The "Label": 

1. By creating a Release/Tag, you freeze a readable "Label" (like v1.0.0) 
of your latest working code for safe keeping.

2. Same Root: By branching off master (or the latest code), both your 
new branch and the older tagged points share the exact same underlying 
history and root directory. You can make edits in new-feature without 
modifying your labeled code, allowing you to easily return to that 
labeled point in GitHub at any time.