* { box-sizing: border-box; margin: 0; padding: 0; font-family: sans-serif; }

This CSS code block is a global reset snippet commonly placed at the very top of a stylesheet to standardize layouts and typography across different web browsers. 

It strips away inconsistent default browser margins, switches to a predictable sizing model, and establishes a clean base font.

Here is the line-by-line breakdown:* (The Universal Selector)

The asterisk targeted every single HTML element on the entire page.
Any styling rules inside these brackets apply globally unless a more specific rule overrides them.

box-sizing: border-box;
This changes how the browser calculates element width and height.

Without it (Default): If you make a box 300px wide and add 20px of internal padding, the browser renders the box at 340px wide. 

This often breaks layouts.With border-box: 
The padding and borders are forced inside the box. If you set the width to 300px, the box stays exactly 300px wide, and the inner content area shrinks to accommodate padding.margin: 0;

This removes the outer spacing around every element.Web browsers naturally add built-in margins to elements like headings (<h1>), paragraphs (<p>), and lists. 

Setting it to zero clears this unwanted, inconsistent spacing.padding: 0;

This removes the inner spacing inside every element.Certain default tags, like lists (<ul>, <ol>) or body tags, include built-in indentation padding. 

Clearing this lets you build your design from scratch without fighting default browser choices.font-family: sans-serif;

This sets a clean fallback font without little decorative "feet" (serifs) on the letters.

If a web developer does not specify a font later in the code, the browser will display text using its default sans-serif font (like Arial or Helvetica) instead of old-style fonts like Times New Roman.

If you are setting up a new project, tell me: 

1. if you plan to use a framework like Tailwind or Bootstrap, or if you want to know about modern best practices like using :where(*) to make overriding global styles even easier.